# Optimization in Reinforcement Learning: From Theory to Practice

**Date:** 7/12/2023 

**Abstract:** In this talk, I will present an optimization perspective on the value-function-approximation problem in reinforcement learning. By looking at the much-celebrated temporal-difference (TD) learning algorithm, we first argue that TD can be viewed as an iterative optimization algorithm where the function to be minimized changes per iteration. By carefully investigating the divergence displayed by TD on a classical counter example, we identify two forces that determine the convergent or divergent behavior of the algorithm. We extend this optimization perspective to prove convergence of TD in a much broader setting than what was known in previous work. We then empirically study the common practice of solving the sequence of optimization problems in TD by using modern variants of the stochastic gradient descent algorithm such as Adam. These optimizers maintain their own internal parameters such as estimates of the first and the second moment of the gradient, and update these parameters over time. Therefore, information obtained in previous iterations is being used to solve the optimization problem in the current iteration. We hypothesize that this can contaminate the internal parameters of the employed optimizer in situations where the optimization landscape of the previous iterations is quite different from the current iteration. To hedge against this effect, we demonstrate that a simple and effective idea is to reset the internal parameters of the optimizer when starting a new iteration. We show that resetting results in significant improvements when used in the context of competitive deep RL algorithms on the Atari benchmark.

 

**Speaker bio:** Kavosh Asadi is a scientist at Amazon, where he applies his expertise to tackle challenging problems in the field of reinforcement learning (RL). He obtained his PhD in Computer Science from Brown University, where he extensively studied the fundamental concepts of RL, with a focus on RL optimization, RL exploration, and model-based RL agents. Kavosh has a keen eye for practical applications of RL, and is particularly interested in the development of technologies empowered by RL such as conversational and assistive agents, resource-allocation algorithms, and recommendation systems. Kavosh enjoys watching the Premier League Soccer, and also playing classical music on the Violin.